“So when this sound occurred,
“a crowd gathered and was bewildered,
“because each one heard them speaking
in his own language.”
When I was young, two sisters
came to my door and taught me God’s name.
I didn’t really get the sense of it.
To understand, I used to sign
the words in the publications,
but the message never touched my heart.
When I would attend church,
I only had an English Bible to read.
There was no ASL Bible,
and I didn’t understand the English.
I prayed for the Bible in my language,
but I never thought it would happen.
Those taking the lead
among Jehovah’s Witnesses
decided that the Bible should be translated
for smaller language groups.
We were thrilled.
“Does that include sign language?”
“Yes, go ahead with it!”
On October 26, 2004,
approval was given
to begin work on the translation
of the Christian Greek Scriptures
into American Sign Language.
We are thrilled to announce
that the translation
of the Christian Greek Scriptures into ASL
is now under way!
The New World Translation in ASL
was released incrementally,
starting with Matthew.
Wow!
At first, I was in a state of shock.
I never thought that Jehovah God
would allow his Holy Word,
his glorious Word, to be translated into ASL
—such undeserved kindness.
When it hit me that they
were going to translate
all of the Christian Greek Scriptures
(with each verse beginning
from Matthew 1:1, 1:2, and so forth),
I was absolutely stunned.
I went to the restroom
and cried and thanked Jehovah.
When I got home, I cried so much;
I couldn’t even see the video.
I got up at 4 o’clock the next morning,
and I ran to watch it,
but I started crying again.
I sobbed all week!
When I finally watched it, I thanked Jehovah.
Without a doubt,
Jehovah has not forgotten us deaf people.
Look at all the spiritual food
he is providing.
Ahh.
For that reason, we should really appreciate
and take advantage of these provisions.
Well,
we want to mention something to you
—something very special.
You see, the team has been working
on translating the Bible
into sign language for 15 years.
And today,
this means that with the release
of the book of Job,
the whole New World Translation
is now completed.
As far as we know,
Jehovah’s Witnesses
are the first organization,
or group of persons,
to release the complete Bible into ASL.
Here in Fort Lauderdale, we have our team
that works on translating the Bible
and other publications from English to ASL.
There are typically three people
on a translation team.
One will focus
on generating translation ideas,
another focuses on the accuracy
of the translation,
and a third person will watch to make sure
the signing is natural
and easy to understand.
First, we are given the text in English.
As we read it,
we carefully analyze the message
and give thought to the theme of the text.
After analyzing the text,
the three members of the team
get together for a project meeting
to discuss any challenges and to make sure
all are on the same page.
The ASL Bible team
was the first to use a live review panel.
The panel would look at the Bible books
and give immediate feedback to the team,
and that feedback was incorporated
to make the final product far superior.
The translation is further refined.
Once it is finalized,
then the team goes to the studio to record.
When deaf people watch the ASL version
of the New World Translation,
they can have complete confidence
that it is accurate and trustworthy.
Now in the ministry,
when I show the Scriptures in ASL,
I can see the reaction of the people
really getting the sense of it,
and I think, ‘Oh, Jehovah, you’re amazing.’
My confidence has greatly increased.
Before the New World Translation
was available in ASL,
I was nervous preaching.
I wasn’t sure what to say.
We only had a few translated scriptures.
If asked a question, I was at a loss.
The ASL Bible project set a pattern
for other sign languages,
and now we have parts of the Bible available
in 17 sign languages,
with more on the way.
Now that the Bible
is available in sign language,
we know without a doubt
that Jehovah wants people of all nations,
backgrounds, and languages to know him
—to know his ways, his name,
his purpose for the future.
He wants everyone to know him.